After the flood, Jehovah stated as recorded in Genesis 8.21,
the inclination of the heart of man is bad from his youth up.
So sadly, we all have imperfect tendencies,
and Satan's banking on us, acting on those inclinations.
For example, our text comments today highlight
that Job needed to work on humility.
And if we researched Job, we learned that he had other areas
he could improve on too.
For example, when attacked, he became bitter and discouraged.
Now, it's understandable any of us would in that circumstance,
but understandable doesn't mean good,
because those reaction or imperfect tendencies
blinded Job from considering other possible reasons
for his problem, and then he blamed and criticized Jehovah.
Now, when we listen to that description,
it sounds rather bleak.
He needed to work on humility, avoid bitterness,
avoid discouragement, avoid justification,
not be critical, and shift blame.
We probably all have a little bit of Job in us,
things that we can work on.
Satan hoped that those tendencies would win
and break Job's integrity.
But did Jehovah see Job like that
or any of the rest of us like that?
Not even close.
Let's go back to the beginning of this trial
and see Jehovah's viewpoint.
I invite you to Job, chapter one.
Job, chapter one, and we'll read verse eight.
Job one, verse eight.
The heavenly scene, Satan has been allowed
to enter in before Jehovah,
and notice the conversation in verse eight.
And Jehovah said to Satan,
have you taken note of my servant, Job?
There is no one like him on the earth.
He is an upright man of integrity,
fearing God and shunning, what is bad?
Now what a fantastic evaluation.
Why the difference?
And what can we learn that will help us weather trials today?
Let's look at a first lesson.
Relationships matter.
Relationships with Jehovah and our fellow servants.
Let's first talk about Jehovah.
Satan obviously hated Job.
Satan only saw value in Job
if he could break his integrity.
Other than that, he was worthless dust.
Whereas Job and Jehovah had a personal relationship.
Job didn't understand why he was suffering,
but regardless, he loved Jehovah
and he didn't want to break his integrity.
And Jehovah knew Job.
Jehovah saw Job's faithfulness and love for his family.
He also remembered that Job didn't worship the sun,
the moon, and the heavenly body, so common at that time.
He also helped fatherless boys and widows
and he was kind to his servants.
Job also knew that Job didn't want to break his integrity.
Thus, while Jehovah was not ignorant
of Job's imperfect inclinations,
he didn't view Job as the sum of his weaknesses.
Jehovah saw the whole man and focused on his good qualities.
And Jehovah does the same with us today.
Why?
Because we have a personal relationship based on love.
Now at times, it's true,
we may want Jehovah to correct something
or provide direction more quickly
or we might not like the direction
or we don't understand why Jehovah's allowing a situation.
But because of our relationship,
we're patient and confident.
We know Jehovah will care for things
and that our obedience will be blessed,
just like Job's was.
We also need personal relationships
with our fellow workers to get through trials.
For example, Jehovah's Holy Spirit empowered a lie
who to help Job.
A lie who was younger had less experience.
But Job accepted his counsel.
He needed the help.
One reference mentioned that Job
may even have wept in relief
as a lie who helped him firmly but kindly.
Today, our brothers and sisters want to help.
But here's the catch.
We have to be willing to accept their help.
Be it spiritual, physical, or emotional.
We don't want to dismiss their help
because we see their imperfect tendencies
or because we don't want to be a burden.
Our brothers and sisters care for us.
And these relationships will be even more important
as we near the end.
To weather trials, relationships matter,
both with Jehovah and our brothers and sisters.
Let's look at a second lesson.
We want to have the correct viewpoint of trials.
We remember that Job didn't cause,
Jehovah didn't cause Job's troubles.
But he didn't stop them either.
Job was allowed to suffer, but with a purpose.
First and foremost, to prove his integrity and Satan a liar.
But secondarily, the trial also afforded Jehovah
an opportunity to train Job further.
And it's similar today.
Satan hasn't gotten any nicer with age.
So while we don't look for trials,
we're not surprised when they come
and we don't end them via unscriptural means.
Why?
Our viewpoint.
We view trials as an honor and as an opportunity.
Imagine for a moment how Job would have felt
if when Satan made his taunt to Jehovah.
Jehovah told Satan, you know, Job's good.
But he still needs to work on a few things.
He's not ready.
Let's wait until Moses comes along.
But that didn't happen.
Look back at verse 8.
Notice, it wasn't Satan who brought up Job's name.
Yes, he was thinking about it.
But it was Jehovah who brought up Job's name
and then gave that wonderful description that we read.
Job was honored to stand up for Jehovah.
And we are too.
We want Jehovah to use our name
just like he did Job's.
We also view standing firm through trials
as an opportunity.
I'd like to invite you to the first letter that Peter wrote.
First Peter.
We'll look at chapter 5 and verse 10.
Verse Peter 5 and verse 10.
Notice what it says.
But after you have suffered a little while,
so a trial, there will be trials.
The God of all undeserved kindness
who called you to his everlasting glory
and union with Christ.
Now notice, we'll himself finish your training.
In the result, he will make you firm.
He will make you strong.
He will firmly ground you.
So while Jehovah didn't cause Job's trial,
it did become a teaching moment.
Jehovah helped Job see the bigger picture and be humbler.
And Jehovah can train us today too.
So if we're facing a trial, we should ask ourselves,
what is Jehovah teaching me?
Do I need more faith to be milder to work on humility?
And whatever we need, we let Jehovah train us.
I was recently speaking with the sister
who's been going through a very challenging situation
for a while now.
But as she was explaining it,
she made a beautiful comment.
She said that while she never expected to go through this
and hopes never to go through it again,
she has come to see how Jehovah
is truly caring for her.
She stated that she has seen Jehovah's hand
on her behalf personally in ways
that she has never experienced before.
It's built her faith.
So a trial can be an opportunity for Jehovah
to train us and make us firm.
We will face a myriad of trials as this system ends
and Satan counts on our weaknesses.
But as Jehovah's servants,
we will weather the storm.
To get through these trials,
we will need to remember
that we need strong relationship with Jehovah
and our brothers and sisters.
No one's an island.
Relationships matter.
And secondly, we adopt the right view of that trial.
We see it as an honor to give an answer
to Jehovah for Satan's taunt
and it's an opportunity for Jehovah to finish our training.